Local development how-to section (#3090)
zenml-io/zenml: docs/book/how-to/develop-locally/keep-your-pipeline-dashboard-clean.md

---

> description: Learn how to keep your pipeline runs clean during development.

Reviewer: maybe worth adding the zenml artifact prune option?

Author: done

---

# Keep your pipelines and dashboard clean

When developing pipelines, it's common to run and debug them multiple times. To avoid cluttering the server with these development runs, ZenML provides several options:

> 

Reviewer: maybe the first option should be to just disconnect from the remote server and run with a default stack on a local zenml installation?

Reviewer: maybe worth adding the zenml clean option for local development?

Author: Both added.

## Unlisted Runs

Pipeline runs can be created without being explicitly associated with a pipeline by passing the `unlisted` parameter when running a pipeline:

```python
pipeline_instance.run(unlisted=True)
```

> Unlisted runs are not displayed on the pipeline's page in the dashboard, keeping the pipeline's history clean and focused on important runs.

Reviewer: hmm but it IS displayed on the runs tab.. so now that I think about it maybe this isn't a good suggestion without filtering.. but I'm not sure how else to do it

Reviewer: @strickvl yes i agree

> ## Deleting Pipelines

Reviewer: how about deleting pipeline runs? mihgt be worth adding a script to delete the last 24 hours of pipeline runs?

Author: added

> ## Deleting Pipelines

Reviewer: What about also talking about models?

Author: added a section

> Pipelines can be deleted and recreated using the command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pipelines that are no longer needed can be deleted using the command:
```

```bash
zenml pipeline delete <PIPELINE_ID_OR_NAME>
```

This allows you to start fresh with a new pipeline, removing all previous runs
associated with the deleted pipeline. This is a slightly more drastic approach,
but it can sometimes be useful to keep the development environment clean.

> ## Unique Pipeline Names

Reviewer: What about Models?

Author: added a section

> Pipelines can be given unique names each time they are run to uniquely identify them. This helps differentiate between multiple iterations of the same pipeline during development.

Reviewer 2: how is this done? maybe a code example?

Author: added
